# UI

In this feature pack we will add ui to the service we created in `1 service.md`. When creating the UI I was planning on using `github.com/Meduzz/gml`. While it's pretty low level library for generating html (since you define each html tag individully) but it is also very powerful.

Another thing to note about `gml` are all the helpers that are already defined. Ex: for html tags, use helpers defined in the `tags` package if availble. Similarely there is a package with helpers for attributes named `attr` that should cover most attributes needed.

I was planning on breaking the ui down in a couple of parts. Each part is defined by a function returning a `gml.Tag`. And each function lives in a file with appropriate naming.

## ui/layout.go

### Page(content gml.Tag) gml.Tag

The page function will be the base template when we render a full page. So this is where we should store the outermost html of any web page. Ie the html, head, title & body tags. Later on when we start using this we'd call this with the content of the Layer function.

I intend to use htmx in the project, so a script-tag that imports it as a dependency from a cdn needs to be included.

Since I dont want style attributes in my html, lets add a style tag to the output of this function. For readability we should define the styles in a string variable separately.

For the styling of the page, lets have it rendered to the left, perhaps with some padding to not have content too close to the window edge. We should add and define all the classes from the widgets defined later in the document.

### Layout(content ...gml.Tag) gml.Tag

They layout function will pretty much be a div with css that creates a flex box. So any tags added will be split over the flexbox in an elegant way. If the length of content is more than 1 then we use the `gml.Tags` helper, and otherwise we'll only wrap the first tag in content.

## ui/widgets.go

### MenuWidget() gml.Tag

In the menu widget I plan to list existing chat prompts down the line. For now it will be empty, but we should still render a placeholder for now. This widget needs to have css that make it take up 1/4 of the flexbox it will be placed in (the one in Layout). Add this as a class here and define that class in the style defined in the Page function.

### ChatWidget() gml.Tag

In the chat widget I plan to display the content of the chat. So basically what the user posted in the form and what the LLM answered. Since none of that is actually implemented, some placeholders will do for now.

At the bottom of the chat widget we need to have the form where the user input their messages. The form should post to /chat. I think a textarea will be a good candiate for input. We will most likely need a submit button too, titled `Send`.

Stylewise this widget should take up what ever space is left in the flexbox provided by the Layout function. Add this as a class here and define that class in the style defined in the Page function.

## ui/ui.go

Since gml is not natively integrated into Gin, we will need a function here named Render or something along those lines. That accepts the Gin context and the gml.Tag that should be rendered.

For now the content-type will always be `text/html` and the html content will the the bytes of the rendered tag.